All righty.
So welcome to the -- there we go.
Welcome to the client management session.
So here we'll cover managed desktop,
system imaging and Apple Remote Desktop.
I'm Juussi Mantere.
I'm one of the engineering
managers in the team.
And the agenda for today,
we'll go over Apple Remote Desktop.
We'll cover client deployment
using system image utility.
And we'll talk briefly about client
managed desktop and go over external
accounts and we'll wrap it up with Q&A.
So let's get started.
So what this really is,
this is a tool chest inventory.
So what are the tools at your disposal
for either getting systems onto your
users' desktops or how to manage
them long-term either actively or
passively and how to provide mobility
or portability for your users' accounts?
What are the tools?
We have Apple Remote Desktop,
we have system imaging, server admin,
record manager,
all these tools at our disposal.
But really the key thing is the user.
So we use these tools to
make the user's life easier.
So either getting them the
management support they need or
getting them the inventory reports
that your management wants,
but still the key is the use of
the desktop that they're using and
how to make that the best desktop
possible for their particular purpose.
And we've had sessions like
this in the previous years.
So last year we did a session on client
management on Apple Remote Desktop.
So please log on to IDC on iTunes.
And on iTunes we have videos
of previous year's sessions.
So we're not gonna go into depth
on all of these technologies,
but if you are interested in
more in detail look at these.
Please review the sessions from
last year and they're available
for free on IDC on iTunes.
And could we start the clock please?
Yay, I just gained five minutes.
First, we'll cover Apple Remote Desktop.
So let me introduce Mark Whitemore,
who is the engineering manager
for Apple Remote Desktop.
and welcome.
I'm going to give you a brief overview of
the features of Apple Remote Desktop and
talk about where we are right
now with version 3.2 and what's
coming up next with Snow Leopard.
So let's start off and talk
about software distribution.
So we have a feature
called Install Package,
lets you install
packages on your clients.
We have a feature called Auto Install,
which allows you to install packages
on machines that are both on the
network and off the network using
a server that's always on that will
be able to contact those systems.
We have -- I'm going to talk
a little bit more about that
in detail in just a moment.
We also have a File Copy command
and Delete Files.
So digging a little bit
more into Auto Install.
So the scenario here is you have
machines that are both on the network
and off the network and you need
to get packages installed onto them.
And the best way to do this is to
have a server that's -- a machine
that's going to act as a server
for you that's always running.
And you install another copy of
Remote Desktop onto that machine.
and you configure your
administrator to use that.
We call that a task server and you
configure your administrator to use
that machine as your task server.
And you select your package on your
administrator and it delegates that
package over to the task server to
complete the installation for it,
copies the package over there and
the task server then contacts all the
clients and installs the package on all
the clients that are currently online.
If you have a machine that's
offline like this MacBook Pro,
once that machine comes online,
it's going to contact the task server
and then the package is going to get
installed on that machine as well.
Let's talk about the
asset management features.
We have software reports,
hardware reports,
application usage reports,
and user history reports.
And you can run these reports on all
machines that are online at any time.
And you can also,
by setting a report cache
generation policy on your clients,
have these reports generated
on a regular basis and uploaded
to a task server machine,
just like what I talked about
a moment ago with auto install.
You can also export the data into a
tab format or a cum-delimited file.
And we also have a remote spotlight
search feature that allows you
to search the spotlight databases
on all your client machines.
So let's talk a little bit more about
how the offline reporting works.
So just like with auto install,
it's best if you have a machine
that's going to act as a server and
it's going to be on all the time
and you install another copy of
your remote desktop on that machine.
You don't have to have the admin running,
you just have to have
the software installed.
Then you configure your admin
console to use that task server.
Then you set a reporting policy for all
your clients so that they'll generate
these report caches on a regular basis
and upload them up to the task server.
Once those reports are
on the task server,
your admin can then run its reports and
it'll get the report data from the admin.
The advantage of setting up this
offline reporting is that even if
one of your clients is offline,
you can still get reports.
Let's talk about the remote
administration features.
So we have a send Unix command so you can
send Unix commands or Unix scripts to all
your machines and get the results back.
We have a set startup disk that allows
you to set the startup disk to a
local volume or to a network volume.
We have various system control features.
You can sleep, wake, restart,
shut down a machine, empty the trash,
lock and unlock the screens.
We have some user control features
that allow you to log out users or open
files for them or open applications.
And we also have a lights out management
feature for X servers that support
this that allow you to restart,
power on or shut down a machine
regardless of the OS state.
So even if the machine
is kernel panicked,
you can still restart it.
So let's talk about remote assistance.
You can observe or
control a remote screen.
You can also observe many
screens at once in a single view.
You can share your screen out
to a number of other machines.
We have a guest access mode that allows
the end user to either allow or deny a
control request from an administrator.
We have a full screen mode so you
can see the other user's machine
on full screen on your machine.
We have a curtain mode that blocks
anyone from seeing what's going on on the
machine that you're remotely controlling.
You can drag and drop files for
copying using screen control.
And you can also get or
send the pasteboard buffer.
We also have a widget for doing
remote desktop observation
or screen observation.
And there's an interactive text
messaging client as well for environments
that aren't appropriate for iChat.
Let's talk about automation.
We have a rich Apple script dictionary,
lots of automator actions,
and just about any management command
in the product can be scheduled.
and lastly all the setup
and configuration features
for Remote Desktop.
We have task templates so you can
put all your favorite settings for
your tasks and when you create tasks
later you can easily populate that
task document with your settings.
We have labels so you can label your
machines much like you would label,
set a label on a file in the finder.
We have user defined list views so
you can create your own list with
a set of machines from your library
and set what kind of information
you want to see in that list,
for instance what version of the
operating system it's running,
how much RAM it's got.
You can also create smart computer
lists that will filter your entire
library using some of this criteria.
For instance,
create a list that shows you
all the machines that have
less than one gigabyte of RAM.
And then you can create
groups to organize your,
the tasks that you've created and
the computer lists you've created.
In addition to this,
we have a user mode for the
Remote Desktop application so
that you can let unprivileged
users run it and you can restrict
what features they have access to.
We have network scanners for finding
machines on your network for you
to add to your computer library.
We have directory-based authentication
and a setup assistant that
allows you to configure some
of the more advanced client-side
features from the admin console.
So Remote Desktop 3.2
is the current version.
It was released in October of 2007.
It brings Leopard compatibility,
greatly improved screen
sharing performance,
greatly improved keyboard
mapping for screen control,
as well as improved
file copy reliability.
and what's coming up next
is Remote Desktop 3.3.
It's gonna be a free
upgrade to existing users.
And I'm gonna talk about all
the things that we're gonna be
improving with this version.
So first off is improved management
for offline reporting settings.
And I talked about the offline reporting
settings just a moment ago when I was
talking about how it's advantageous to
have your clients generate these caches
and upload them to their task server
so you can do your reports at any time.
So first thing I'm gonna talk
about how things work right now.
On the left side is the preference
pane in Remote Desktop that shows you
where the settings are for setting
your default reporting policies.
So currently, this is in the same
tab as the task server.
Now the truth of what the
reporting policy is on each
client is set on the admin.
And what that means is that if you
have a client that is generating a
report that you don't want to do and you
remove the preferences on that client,
the next time the administrator
that had originally set up that
policy authenticates to that client,
it's going to push that schedule
back down again and you're
going to have the same issue.
Now also from your administrator console,
you don't have any visibility
into what other report policies
other administrators have set up.
So in the next version,
we're going to move the reporting
settings out of the Task Server tab
and into its own tab so that
they're a lot more discoverable.
We're going to move the truth of
the offline reporting policy onto
the client rather than on the admin.
So if you have a client
that is generating reports
that you don't want it to,
you can delete the preferences and you
don't have to worry about another rogue
administrator pushing that policy back
down to the administrator and getting
the reports generated all over again.
and the next thing that we're
going to change is we're going to
have a single reporting policy.
No longer are we going to have
different reporting policies
coming from different admins.
We're going to have a single reporting
policy that all administrators
can view and set the settings on.
So everyone will be able
to see the same policy.
Also,
this is the computer get info window.
You see that you see all
the administrators who can
manage this machine now.
And not only that,
but you also see who is interested
in getting these offline reports
loaded up to their task server.
And you see what task server
is associated with each
of these administrators.
So this is all new in 3.3.
So the next thing that we're going
to improve is our NAT support.
So in the current version,
Remote Desktop only allows,
each machine has to have a unique
IP address and the reason is that
it hard codes the port that it
communicates to the client on,
3283.
So that means that behind a NAT,
currently, you can only have one machine
for it to the WAN side.
So in the next version,
we're going to allow the administrator
to have machines with the same
IP address but with different ports.
So now you can configure your NAT router
to port forward to all your machines
behind it and just with different ports.
So while it's great that you
can now manually configure your
NAT router and manually enter in
these ports into Remote Desktop,
in some environments it may be even
better to have this happen automatically.
And you can do this if you have
a supported UPnP NAT router and
you configure a client to register
its network services into a wide
area of Bonjour Server which
you can configure using Leopard.
and when you do that,
the client is going to learn what the
WAN side of the port is that got opened
up automatically using UPnP and it's
going to register that information
in the wide area Bonjour server.
Now your Remote Desktop Administrator
using a Bonjour scanner and also looking
at that same wide area Bonjour server is
going to learn what the wide area dynamic
port is that was set up and then without
any other additional configuration,
it's going to be able to connect to
that client behind your UPnP NAT router.
And it will also as needed,
re-resolve that DNS address,
that wide area Bonjour address so it
will always be able to find that client.
So even if the dynamic
port mapping changes,
Remote Desktop will still be able
to re-resolve and find that machine.
So in addition to improving
the offline reporting settings
and improving our NAT settings,
we're also going to have support for
managing machines across back to my Mac.
We're going to add support
for IPv6 addresses.
And just like as 3.2 came in Leopard,
3.3 is going to come in Snow Leopard.
So just as a review,
3.2 is the current version.
It's out right now.
3.3 is going to be our next
update with Snow Leopard.
There are more resources
available online at
www.apple.com/remotedesktop/resources.ht
ml.
And we're going to be in the IT lab at
5:00 to answer any additional questions.
So I'll hand it back to Juussi.
Good job.
All right, thank you, Mark.
So next topic, system imaging.
So how do you get these clients
that you want to manage with ARD,
how do you get them
onto people's desktops?
So system imaging,
what do you use it for?
Basically,
whatever source you have to create
images from either DVD or user volume,
you use system image utility to
create master images out of those,
either install sets or
volume restore sets.
And then with server admin,
you have the tools that you
can deploy these images with.
So this, and you can finally customize
content with Package Maker.
So if you have applications that
don't use the Apple installer
to deploy their packages with,
you have other tools available to you.
So what's new with the system imaging?
So this covers what we have
new in Leopard or to be
delivered in Snow Leopard.
So with Mac OS X Leopard,
we basically rewrote the application.
So now the application is
based on automated actions.
So any step that you have
to do to create a image,
either from volume or DVD,
is now an automated action.
So you can use these workflows either
inside system image utility itself,
or you can use these in automated
workflows inside either automated
application or other applications
that support workflows.
And also, in addition to all these
powerful tools that you have,
we created a image assistant.
So image assistant lets
you create really in one,
two step,
create images that you can deploy
without having to customize
or otherwise tweak the images.
So it's really easy to use and
hopefully will let other people who
are not necessarily that technically
savvy create their deployment sets.
And we also added pieces into
server admin where you can now
monitor the status of either
systems that are installing an
OS or doing a volume restore,
or you can see which systems
are currently netbooted.
And for load balancing,
we also added support for
Exa and read-only volumes.
So this would come in
handy where you have,
let's say multiple Exa's
acting as netboot servers,
and you have Exa and volume
that's backing all the netboot
images or netinstall images,
but on some Exa's,
those volumes are read-only.
So now we can actually offer netboot,
netinstall images off
of read-only volumes.
Last but not least,
we now have ASR support inside
system imaging in Snow Leopard.
So this basically gives you
ASR multicast support or ASR sources
such as HTTP disk images.
And this is configured
via an automated action.
So let me just give you a brief
look on how the tools look like.
And here's the first thing you'd see
when you launch the system image utility.
So you land in the
Image Creation Assistant.
And here we have just two sources.
One is a volume source.
One is a hard drive.
And you can create either net install
or netboot volumes from either
install disk sets or the volume sets.
And what you can do then with the
workflow action-- so if you actually
go on to customize these images,
first you can define where
this image is created from.
So you can pick an installation
type or an image type,
either netboot or netinstall,
pick where it's created from.
And if it's an install volume,
like you have a DVD at hand and you want
to customize which packages are actually,
by default, delivered to your users,
you can customize the package selection,
either entirely eliminating
some packages so that they're
not selectable by the user,
or by changing the default set that the
user would get when they install this.
So you can either add or delete options,
don't install all the printers,
only install some particular printers,
or don't install all languages.
So that's a very flexible way
to customize the disk set.
And you can also add packages.
So if you do have application
packages such as Remote Desktop or
other applications that come
bundled as a package model,
you can add those into your
installation set as well.
And you can also add custom scripts that,
if there isn't a direct way to tweak some
settings on the systems that you create,
you could use scripting,
shell scripts or Rubio, Perl, Python,
whatever have you,
to finally lay down the bits that
you exactly need on the target
systems just the way you'd like them.
And for netboot images,
if we create those from
DVDs or DVD sources,
we have to create a
user account for those,
so we have support for that.
And we can also change some
of the system settings.
So if we need to bind some of the
systems into directory systems,
we can configure that via the
system configuration settings.
We can also rename some of the
systems based on their MAC addresses.
So if you know that you have 15 machines
and they've all come up as Macintosh 1,
2, 3, 4, that's not very helpful.
So you could take down the MAC addresses
of the systems and actually call them
something that's meaningful to you.
Or if you so choose,
you can just call them the
Final Cut Lab 1-2-3 or 4.
And then...
You can also create installation
sets that effectively could
wipe out your users hard drives.
So this is for automated installation.
This is useful for lab scenarios.
Like if you have a lab or classroom
that has 50 to 100 machines,
you'd rather not have to go one by
one to machine and click through
all the panes for the installation.
But if you know that your target
machines will have some known
elements such as a named hard drive,
you could fork off the
installation based on that and say,
well,
if I see a hard drive called erase me,
then just go ahead with the installation
and wipe out the target and lay down
the bits without you having to do
anything on the machines themselves.
So the next time the systems come up,
they'll actually be booted into the
installation that you just finished.
and another system deployment or
system configuration setting we
have is for partition in the disk.
So you may want to change
the disk configuration,
for example, adding a bootcamp partition
on the target systems.
So you can also-- not only
can you just erase the hard
drive and lay down new bits,
you can also reconfigure the disks
into partitions that you'd like to see.
You might have two partitions for
the OS and another partition for
user data depending on your needs.
And we also support
filtering for the images.
So some images are not
applicable to all Mac clients.
So you might have installed images
that are applicable to only,
let's say, Mac Pros.
So if you do create a
Final Cut application bundle
that's an install set,
you may not want to offer
that to a iMac or MacBook,
but you may want to restrict
that only into Mac Pros.
And you can also filter the
images based on Mac addresses.
So if you know that you're testing an
image that you will deploy down the road,
but you really want to serve it
from your production service,
you can set the image settings so that
they're only available to particular
set of machines that you want to
use for your deployment testing.
and finally,
we have a create image where you
can define where this image will be
stored and what it will be called.
And what's new to Snow Leopard then?
This is the action where you configure
the ASR multicast restore source.
So either ASR multicast streams
or HTTP images stored on a
server can be defined here.
And you also have options to
discover the restore sources
dynamically on the network.
So if you create a disk
image that doesn't have any
ASR sources defined in it,
the client can discover these sources
when it's actually on the network.
And you'd send a Bonjour beacon
on the network advertising the
availability of restore sources.
So if you start up a multicast stream,
the restore image will automatically
pick that up and you could select
that as your restore source.
So this is new to Snow Leopard
and will be part of the
Mac OS X Snow Leopard package.
And then Packagemaker.
So this is not necessarily
part of system imaging as such,
but quite a few people have not
really used the tool and some people
don't know what to do with that.
Well,
one interesting thing with Packagemaker
is the remote source for packages.
So with Packagemaker in Mac OS X Leopard,
you can actually source the
data payload for your install
images off of a web server.
So imagine that you
create an application,
you create a new installer
that installs the latest,
let's say Firefox or could
be Office or could be CS3.
And you know that, well,
this is up to date for today.
And maybe there's gonna be an update
down the road that you'd want to install,
but you'd rather not go back to
the initial disk set and have
to recreate it all from scratch.
So with Packagemaker,
you can actually point to the network
live copy of the installation set and
that would be always kept up to date.
So no matter when you install this,
this system,
you'll always get the latest,
most current version of applications that
are using the web-based package payloads.
So that's definitely something that
will be useful for deployments.
And, yay, go Packagemaker.
and where you'd actually access
this in system image utility is
through the add packages action.
So you can add to the
remotely stored packages,
the pointer to that will be contained
in a standard package that you add,
but then the payload itself will
be carried down at a later stage.
So that's briefly an overview of system
imaging and as I mentioned we went into
a little bit more detail last year.
One new thing that's kind of new to us
is MacBook Airs and wireless Netboot.
So let's see, does this play?
There we go.
So here we have a MacBook Air.
And actually, here's the MacBook Air.
And what's new with MacBook Air is like,
we can actually do wireless Netboot.
So that's a boot picker on MacBook Air.
So you hold down Option key,
and if your wireless infrastructure
is configured so that you see Netboot
servers on the wireless network,
you now get a picker where you can
choose the network you bind it to,
and the Netboot images on your
network will be available there.
So this is no different
than booting a standard Mac.
So if you do have
MacBook Airs on your network,
and you don't want to have everyone use
the install assistant that comes with it,
you can actually serve Netinstall and
Netboot images to your MacBook Air users
by using the standard OS X server as
long as your network infrastructure
is configured for wireless use.
So here's actually a server that's,
or a client that's hooked
up to our demo server.
So this is not smoke and mirrors.
This is actually works.
So MacBook Air wireless Netboot.
That's a first for Apple here.
So, yay.
Let's now go on to a brief demo.
And let me introduce Brian Nesse,
who is the lead engineer
for System Image Utility.
And if you can go to demo one, please.
and I will be doing a
lot of work on this.
So, real briefly here,
I'm just going to quickly show you SIU.
This is, as you see, I already mentioned,
this is the assistant mode
that you see when you come up.
You get your,
this is an install DVD source.
This is a local hard drive.
You can choose whether you
want to make an install image
or Netboot image out of it.
Real simple.
Two clicks,
you're basically creating an image.
Real simple.
But what I'm really up here to show
you is our new little action here.
So when you go to the customize
and get the workflow editor here,
you'll see it basically comes
up and says define image
source and create image source.
What we're going to do is kill this guy,
because we don't want a source per se,
and we're going to drag
in our new action here.
Get expose out of the way.
Let's do that.
Okay,
so we tried to make this real simple.
Just click the button to add,
you give it a URL to your server.
Give it a somewhat descriptive name
so that you know what you've got.
As Juussi mentioned earlier,
we can also tell it to look for multicast
streams that are out on your network.
And then as before,
you simply run and you've
got yourself an image.
So to show you what you're going
to see on the other end of this,
and I will quickly go
to server admin here.
You'll see we have a couple of clients
here that are currently booted into our
server showing that they're trying to do
net installs or prepared to be installed.
And through the magic of ARD here,
I will go control one of these machines.
And so here we are.
Going to progress.
So as this is the standard Mac installer,
I'm sure you've all seen it many times.
Just going to select
your target destination.
And you'll see here's our new panel
that we've added that supports the
action previously demoed there.
These are some server or some
streams that were added in,
in the action.
So you see you've got your descriptive
name up here and a little clue down
here as to what it's pointing to.
See we've got a couple of ASR images
or streams here and another image
that's being served up over HTTP.
We also checked the
ASR multicast browser,
so let's quickly go and...
Start up a couple of streams here.
And if you look here,
you'll see them pop up because
it's constantly browsing
and it will find them and
These are basically any streams
that you had out there that you set
up for this thing to go look for.
And that's basically all
I came to show you today.
So back to Juussi.
All right, thank you, Brian.
So that's what's new and
fresh with system imaging with
Mac OS X Leopard and Snow Leopard.
So let's then move on to Managed Desktop.
So you've now deployed your systems and
then how do you manage these systems?
So Managed Desktop, again,
it's a directory-based way of
deploying settings into the systems
that are bound to directory systems.
Managed Desktop is also
used in parent controls.
So if you ever go to
System Preferences and enable,
let's say,
application launch restrictions,
that functionality is
part of Managed Desktop.
The parent controls is a UI front
end for some of the features that we
have in both in Workgroup Manager and
then the client side on the OS.
And there have been
releases since Mac OS X too.
So in Jaguar,
Jaguar was the first release
of Mac OS X that had client
management for OS X clients.
With Mac OS X, 10.3, Mac OS X Panther,
we introduced mobile accounts.
And in Mac OS X for Tiger,
new to the platform where preference
manifests on portable home directories.
And last, with Mac OS X,
Mac OS X5 with Leopard,
we introduced hierarchical
groups and external accounts.
And there were numerous other
features in every single release.
So if you look briefly at the history,
it's like this was the
original Mac industry,
but now we're going to talk
about Mac and Mac OS X,
and I'm going to talk
and I'm going to talk about
the Mac and Mac OS X interface.
So let's start with the
Mac and Mac OS X interface.
Yeh, how many of you are still using 10.2
or 10.3 clients on your networks?
For the love of anything that's holy,
please move on because
[Transcript missing]
So we did a bunch of
demos last year as well,
so I implore you to go to the
ADC site and view some of the
previous sessions from there.
So we're not going to
cover the same crowd.
So what I'm going to show you here
today is using Remote Desktop and
some of the command line utilities to
actually query the management status
of some of the systems on the network.
So I have some of the clients
on the network here that I've
configured for management.
And what I'd want to find out is,
do I have all the active
management settings live?
So if I go to Workgroup Manager,
here's my user list.
So I have...
as soon as work with
management comes back.
So I have some users that I know that
should be managed and I also have groups
that I have done the management through.
So I have this allowed
applications group where we have
the white listed applications.
So I can see that this seems to
be a user group where they can
only use rudimentary applications,
no access to terminal or system
profiler or anything else
besides your basic four apps.
They can chat, they can send email,
they can browse and they have
iCal and they probably should
have address book support.
So let's add address book
here just for the heck of it.
and others.
So now they get to use
address book as well.
That's just right.
And this is implemented --
this group is a nested group.
So when we looked at the
members of this group,
there are no direct
members of this group.
It only contains another group where
then we have the individual users.
So this is one example
using hierarchical groups.
So then let's go to the client.
And actually,
I have already logged on these clients.
So it seems like everybody's
sitting at their desktops.
So that's fine and great.
And there they are.
But let's see if they're
actually being managed.
So one way to find that out is using
one of the Unix command line tools.
So I could use System Profiler.
So let's send a command to the
client and see what comes back.
So I just used the Managed Client
System Profiler module to discover
what management settings are there.
So apparently I have
some window settings,
and then I have some
application settings.
But this is really unmanageable.
Let me see if I can roll it up for you.
Nope.
Quick jump to universal access.
Enable zooming.
Yes.
There we go.
So this is highly unreadable.
Well, first of all, it's XML.
It's PList,
not meant for human consumption.
So let's see what else
we can do with this.
Another Unix command that could be,
so that was using the system profiler
and the Managed Client module in that.
And mcxquery is another tool for
Managed Desktop where you can query
either hypothetical scenario where you
know that with this user logging into
this machine with this work group,
what would the management
settings be for that user?
So Managed Desktop now has an
option to also query the active
state with the mcxquery tool.
So let's see what that comes back with.
Well, that's a little bit more readable.
So here we have a tab-delimited
list of some of the settings.
So apparently we have family
controls enabled and we have
some login window settings,
but something's not quite right.
rights.
So let's do another query where
we can actually use the plist
output or the non-human consumable
output of a managed client.
So we use the query format for XML.
So we get much more detail
into what keys are being set.
So OK, that's probably something
that could be parsed using
either Python or Perl or Ruby.
So that could be further processed with,
let's say, an auditing tool.
And here I'm going to use an
auditing tool called defaults.
So this is not recommended
for production use.
So here's just-- oops,
I want to send a Unix command.
So what I'm doing here,
so I'm using the MCX query tool and
I'm going to output the management
values into a temporary file.
[Transcript missing]
and actually go to the manage group
that I had and go to preferences.
So I can now use the details view
and see that this is actually
the keys that were managed here.
And one of the keys is family
controls enabled so now I know
which domain I could use.
And now if I go back to
the remote desktop side.
and then run this command.
So I think what I'm doing is trying
to read the managed applications
list from these three machines.
And it turns out that there's no
management active for one of these users,
so this user sitting on Mac Mini 3
doesn't have any management enabled.
And that's kind of curious
because I thought everybody
was a member of the group.
And apparently I just thought that.
What I can do now with Remote Desktop,
I can actually see who
are these people here.
So that was our Mini 3 system.
Let's not make that so jerky.
So here we go.
So on Mac Mini 3, I have Ms.
Stein there.
And apparently there's something
wrong with the group memberships.
Well, that's at least what I guess first.
So if I look at the groups that are here,
so students is member of
the applications group,
but apparently Ms.
Stein is not part of the students group.
So by using the tools here,
I was able to tell that this particular
user is not -- is not properly
set for this -- for our setup.
So I'd need to add this person
into our restricted group and
the life will be good again.
Oops.
Drag.
There.
Save.
And that's how you can use like various
tools that we have at our disposal
using Workgroup Manager to manage,
using Remote Desktop for reporting,
and using the Managed Desktop backend
tools for querying state of management.
And using Unix tools to then report on
those and find anomalous conditions.
So that is the demo for Managed Desktop.
So if you can go back to the slides,
please.
And now let me introduce Bruce Gaya,
lead engineer for Managed Desktop,
and he'll cover portable home directors.
Let's talk about portable
home directories.
Whoops, wrong way.
There we go.
Okay, portable home directories,
mobile accounts, external accounts,
what they're all about is taking
a network account and the whole
user's home directory and making them
portable so that the user can log
in and use that home directory when
they're not connected to the network.
Also, when we talk about the account,
all the management of the
account goes with these users.
So this is a good way to manage
a local user as a network user.
Mac OS 10.3 Panther was where
we introduced mobile accounts.
At that time,
we had a mobile account with a
cached account with credentials
so you could log in offline.
But the home directory that
you created locally did not
synchronize with the network home.
In Mac OS 10.4 Tiger,
we introduced portable home directories
and that really is all the things of a
mobile account plus home synchronization.
So now, in Tiger,
you can create a portable home directory,
take your portable computer,
use it offline, make all sorts of changes
to your home directory,
come back to the network and
it will synchronize all the
changes you made locally back up
to your network home directory.
Starting in Leopard,
we introduced external accounts and more.
An external account is a mobile account,
is a portable home directory,
but instead of living on the
internal disk of a computer,
it lives on a disk itself.
So the disk itself contains
the account information and it
contains the home directory.
Now I said and more there
because as we progress from 10.3,
10.4, 10.5,
we've been adding more management
features so now you can really
control home directory creation
and synchronization very finely.
So here's some new management
things we put in for portable
home directories in Leopard.
First of all, FileVault.
Starting in Leopard,
you can require that FileVault that
when a user creates a mobile account,
that the home directory will
be protected by FileVault.
FileVault is essentially an
encrypted file system for just
the user's home directory.
So protect the information in there so
that you can't get in there without an
account password or a master password.
Starting in Leopard,
the account can now be on an internal
or an external hard disk as well as just
under the users folder of the boot disk.
And when it's on an external disk,
we call that an external account.
We added account expiration.
So what this is is that if you
set up mobile accounts across
your network and you have a
whole bunch of network machines,
one day a user will come into
machine A and they'll log in and
because of the management settings
they'll create a PhD there and
they'll be happy and log off,
sync back to the network.
They come back on another day,
they log into machine B,
they get another mobile account,
they get the fresh
information from the network,
they log off,
they sync back to the network,
they're happy.
They go to another machine,
third day and you can see what happens.
By the end of the week they've got a
mobile account on all these different
machines and they're taking up resources.
So starting in Leopard you can now have
these accounts be reaped and deleted or
expired after a certain amount of unuse.
Okay, we also added MCX and
HomeSync preference manifests.
Okay, now you can actually have quite
a bit of fine-grained control
over PHG creation and sync.
A whole bunch of keys are now exposed
so that you can actually change
things to your own site requirements.
We added a sync server.
A synchronization server is a process
which runs an OS X server and it
keeps listening to the FS event queue.
And so you have to think about
how a synchronization works.
How a synchronization works
is there's two big phases.
One is you figure out what's changed
and the second one is you copy stuff.
And it turns out that figuring out
what's changed can usually take
more time than the data that's
copied because prior to using the
synchronization server in Tiger,
you had to walk through the entire
folder hierarchy and do this big
enumerate on the server and locally
to figure out what's changed.
Starting in Leopard,
we used a sync server so this figuring
out what's changed phase is much quicker
and so the entire synchronization
process is much quicker as well.
Okay, so how do you set this stuff up?
First of all, run Workgroup Manager.
This is what Workgroup
Manager looks like.
You can either select a user group
computer or computer group in Leopard,
and what you do is you select that,
select this preferences icon,
select the mobility icon,
and you start going.
We get right away to the
mobile account creation pane.
What you have to do here is
simply click this checkbox which
says create mobile account when a
user logs into a network account.
You seem to have lost that,
but we'll let that go.
There it is.
Okay, and once that's checked
and you hit Apply Now,
then basically this user is set to
create a mobile account when they log in.
We get to the options pane.
This is where you get to
decide if you want to have
the user use FileVault or not.
I've checked it here because I want
all the users on this network because
I'm managing the guest computer.
I want all the users on the network
when they create a mobile account to
have it all encrypted with FileVault.
At the bottom here is where you get
to decide where the home directory is.
The bottom, a pop-up,
has a couple of states.
I have it set here to
any external volume.
So what I'm doing here is
I'm setting up for having my
users use external accounts.
So when they log in,
they'll get a dialogue and at
that time they can present a disk
or attach a disk and they'll be
able to create a mobile account,
a PhD or an external
account on that disk.
One other thing,
you can set synchronization rules.
This is the login and logout sync pane.
And how this works is at the
top you can decide what folders
are going to be synchronized.
and at the bottom you can decide
what things inside of those folders,
which files or folders you
don't want to synchronize.
If you look at the match column there's
a whole bunch of different match types.
This is full path there.
You can say starts with, ends with,
that sort of thing.
Also, there's another pane called the
background synchronization pane.
It works the same way.
It has two panes at the top.
You decide what to sync,
and you decide what not to sync.
So there's always a
question which comes up,
is what should be synchronized?
Synchronization takes time,
so you should try to minimize data.
The less you synchronize,
the less time your user will
spend waiting for synchronization,
essentially.
There's a user education issue.
If you decide not to
synchronize pictures,
which should have a capital P there,
you should tell your users so that they
don't put important data in pictures.
Because if it doesn't synchronize,
it doesn't get replicated
up onto the network server,
and if they lose that mobile
account or they lose that disk,
they won't get it back.
So while it's good to
reduce what you're syncing,
you also need to tell your users.
What should you sync at
log in and log out sync?
That is designed to
synchronize preferences.
What should you sync during
the background sync or put
in the background sync set?
That's designed to sync everything else.
And here's a hint that I'll give you.
For Leopard clients, don't put the same
file in both sync sets.
And I'm going to tell you why.
You can decide in Leopard when to sync
using the Home Sync Preference Manifest.
Now, I've loaded all the manifests
here and the one I've selected
here is called Home Sync.
If I selected that and
clicked on the pencil icon,
I'd come to a dialog
which looks like this.
And this will allow you to set various
keys that decide when things are synced.
The thing I want to point
out here is that in Leopard,
the log in and log out sync set
and the background sync set can
actually synchronize at log in,
log out and in the background.
So we found that was a
bit perhaps confusing,
so I'm going to show you this is the
Leopard version of Workgroup Manager.
And we've changed the name.
Of the log in and log out sync
set to the preference sync set.
That's right up there.
It's now called preference sync.
And we've changed the name
of the background sync set
to be called Home Sync.
Right up there.
But more importantly, there's a bunch of
check boxes at the top.
And now you can decide very finely
in Snow Leopard when you want these
different preferences to sync.
Now, I want to point out this
is just an HI change.
Okay, this is just an HI change,
it's not a functional change, okay?
So, Leopard clients and Snow Leopard
clients basically work the same,
but we want a work group manager
to really reflect what is actually
happening in synchronization.
Okay,
some command line tools of interest.
HomeSync is a little application which
sits inside of managedclient.app.
When you're synchronizing,
actually HomeSync is running.
It has a command line interface.
If you call HomeSync -s from the
command line while you're logged in,
you'll get a HomeSync now right then.
But my favorite tool is
called CreateMobileAccount.
And CreateMobileAccount will allow
you to create a mobile account
and its variations of portable
home directory and an external
call right from the command line.
Most interesting parameters are the
-h home path and under -h you can
actually specify any path to the home,
which means that you're not limited
to creating the home under /users or
you can create it wherever you want.
Any path will do.
Under create mobile account -u you
can specify a sync URL and that's a
URL like afp:// that sort of thing.
And that allows you to have a
mobile account which synchronizes
to not just to its network home,
but perhaps it can synchronize to
another file server completely or a
different spot on the network home.
I was talking to an Active Directory user
site and they wanted to have their
Leopard clients synchronized to a
folder inside their network home.
So if you create it with the
create mobile account tool,
it will allow you to do that.
Another trick, which you only hear
about at WWDC I think,
is that if you have an existing loader,
if you have a local account and
you run create mobile account
against that with a sync URL,
you'll actually create a local
account which will synchronize
against any share or network home.
One other fun thing is in Leopard
we support these URLs -afp,
nfs, smb.
Starting in Leopard we're
going to support the file URL,
which will allow you to synchronize the
home to somewhere else on the network
hierarchy and perhaps to another volume.
So I'll let you think about that.
the implications of that.
OK, time to do a demo.
Okay, I need to go to demo one.
I think it's on, there we go.
Let's start from scratch here.
Close everything.
I'm going to launch WorkRoute Manager.
I have to log in as diradmin.
Okay, these are the users and what
I want to do is set it up such
that one user will create an
external account when they log in.
I'm going to choose John Appleseed,
I'm going to click on Preferences,
and I'm going to click on Mobility.
I get the creation pane
as I showed in my slides.
Click on always and then create
mobile account when this user logs in.
That's fine.
With default sync settings.
That's great.
Under options, there's the options pane.
I click there.
Click on always.
It's going to encrypt
this home with FileVault.
And down at the bottom I'm going to
say user chooses any external volume.
and just say apply now.
That's pretty much done,
but I want to set up some
other rules just for this demo.
So let's go to the sync rules.
And this is Snow Leopard.
So what I'm going to do is say always.
And for the preference sync,
I'm going to say don't
sync it log in and log out.
Just in the background and manually.
And I'm going to do the
same thing for whole sync.
Click on always.
Unclink these two.
So sync in the background
and sync manually.
So apply now.
Okay, that's all there is to it.
This user setup.
So now I'm going to go
over to demo number four.
Did you get it?
Oh, Brian's MacBook Air.
Yes, that's it.
I need to log out.
and we see we're at login window.
And by the way,
these things that say network
accounts available and the
title are coming from managed
preferences using the guest record.
So I'm going to click on other and log
in as that user who is John Appleseed.
There we go.
And this is the dialogue you get.
Create a mobile account with
a portable home directory.
But here it says no volumes attached.
So I happen to have a
USB 2.0 volume here.
It's formatted with HFS+
and all I do is connect it,
which can be easier said than done.
There we go.
And as soon as that disk spins up.
and I'm going to just click
Create Now and it starts
creating the File Vault Home.
File Vault is very important,
especially on an external
account because if that disk
falls into someone else's hands,
it's very easy to get all
the files off that disk.
You just sort of turn off
ownership and anybody can read it.
So I would recommend using File Vault on
basically all portable home directories
and especially on all external accounts.
Yes, we go, and we're done with
the FileVault creation,
and now we're starting a synchronization.
And this is -- we'll be taking
the stuff off the server,
the user's network home,
and copying it down to this MacBook Air,
and specifically to this disk,
which is sitting right there.
And by the way, the network is wireless.
and the rest of the team.
Okay, the sync is complete.
And now we are logged in.
We see this user is here
and what do you know,
he has the desktop and
the home directory.
Now let's make sure that
the home is where I think.
So I select the home.
There's the home.
You see it's file vaulted there.
If I get info on that and you read here,
it will say it's located
on volumes Aristophanes.
If I look on this external volume here,
Aristophanes,
I see there's a folder called users.
And inside of users,
open that and there is the home.
John Appleseed.
It's actually on this disk.
Now if I take this user and try
to drag him to the eject it,
that's actually prevented.
So that's a good thing, right?
So now I'm going to log out.
And once the log out is complete,
the account and the home I just
created will be right on that disk.
File vault has to run.
Now one thing I want to
mention is you didn't see any
log in and log out sync here.
You didn't see a log out sync.
And that's because I turned
it off in Workgroup Manager.
So, let's return to the login window.
There we go.
And there's my new user, John Appleseed.
I'm going to disconnect
him from this machine now.
Disappears from that machine.
And let's go over to demo B.
You got that?
Yes.
Okay.
I have a USB connector and I'm going
to connect this up here like this.
There we go.
There's John Appleseed.
Okay.
So let's, thank you.
Now I can log in using
the home right here.
and it should skip the log in
and log out sync that does that.
Here we are again.
Here is Aristophanes users
and there's the home.
Something I wanted to do to make
it a little more distinctive,
I'm going to give this
user a special picture.
Let's try that one.
OK, just to show that some
of these things stick.
And now I'm going to log out,
get back to login window.
File vault's going to clean up a bit.
Again, skipping the login and
logout sync so it's quick.
We get here and there's John Appleseed
and he has his special icon.
And now all I have to do is disconnect
this and I'm off to go use another
computer with my home right here.
and back to Juussi.
- So thank you, Bruce.
And that's a brief overview of the
different management options you have
to manage your either Leopard or Tiger,
hopefully not Panther or Jaguar clients.
There are many ways to
manage these things.
You could use either Remote Desktop,
your Swiss Army knife.
You can use system
imaging to deploy clients,
Managed Desktop to enforce settings
on a directory-based environment.
And you have account portability
with mobile and external accounts.
So last year we covered
some of these features.
And if you go to the ADC site,
you'll see some of the sessions there.
For any further information,
please get in touch with
our technology evangelist,
Mark Malone,
or you'll find more information
on Apple's site for all of that.
And if you're interested
in more information,
please go to the ADC site,
and you'll find more
information on the OS X server.
There are a bunch of sessions.
There was one session earlier today
for portable home directories.
So if you missed that,
please log on to ADC once the sessions
are up and available on iTunes.
So if you're interested in external
accounts and some more detailed view,
check that session out from this morning.
Upcoming sessions, we have a session,
there is a session tomorrow
for client management.
If you use scripting with ARD or using,
let's say system imaging
with Ruby or whatnot,
there are session on that.
Directory services,
if you do use managed desktop,
you probably want to know about how
directory services can be troubleshot.
You may have some issues with
Active Directory integration or
open directory anomalies or whatnot.
So this is where you'd actually get
some tools for your environment.
And there's a panel on
Friday for OS X administration.
So if you're interested in that,
that's one to attend.
And we have a bunch of
labs lined up as well.
Right after this session,
there's an Apple Remote Desktop Lab at
the IT Lab.
All these sessions are at the IT Lab.
Directory services,
we have two labs for those,
one on Wednesday and another one Friday.
For Mac administration lab,
there's one on Thursday in the morning.
And for client management,
there's another lab
on Thursday afternoon.
So with that,
that concludes our presentation.
And we move on to the Q&A portion.